# Repetition

One of the frequent questions asked in katas (after the first one) is why do
they have to be so repetitive? Why can't we do something else?

These aren't bad questions but they do indicate a general misunderstanding of
the point of katas.

## All In The Name

The word kata comes from Japanese, and literally means "form" referring to
detailed patterns of movements practiced and exercised either solo or in pairs.
In context the term typically refers to martial arts and the training of the
body and mind to follow a set sequence of movements. The aim is to achieve a
perfection of the sequence by repeating it.

Dave Thomas borrowed the term in his book
"[The Pragmatic Programmer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Pragmatic_Programmer)"
published in 1999. In this context it refers to the practice and exercise of
working through a set task, the fundamental concept remains the same as the
original meaning. By repeating the task the participant aims to perfect the
operations.

## Solving The Task Is Secondary

The primary concern is to repeat the operations and processes of solving the
task rather than the task itself. There is no concept of a perfect solution
here, instead it is the act of working through the TDD cycles. It doesn't
completely remove the actual coding from the exercise but it does move the
focus away from programming language and the actual implementation.

## The Programming Language Is Secondary Too

Just as the final implementation is not critical, so too is the programming
language used.  The point of the kata is not to learn a new language (although
that can be a secondary benefit). The downside to this is that there has to be
some consensus on the language used, especially where the kata is performed in
pairs.

## Pragmatism

Repeating an exercise indefinitely without the honest desire to perfect the
process turns any kata into a chore. The participants will ultimately find
excuses not to take part and that is counter-productive. Having a small
number of different problems to solve allows some variety without sacrificing
the core premise of practicing the tasks to improve skills in TDD.

There is also the matter of introducing complexity to the process and offering
a way of making the process practical in the real world where TDD is not just
about simple unit tests.

It can certainly be argued that skills in unit tests are not the same as skills
in TDD even if there is a definite overlap but to limit the katas to just the
most basic TDD processes misses the potential for learning wider techniques
that are applicable in the real world.

There is no hard and fast rule about when to swap from one kata to another.
Each participant needs to be self-aware of why the katas exist and why they are
repeated while monitoring their own desire to learn more and avoid boredom.
